# Meeting 10/13/23: Web Application Workshop in React.js

Presenter: __Arian Namavar__

Using [Babel.js](https://babeljs.io/)?  

Concepts Introduced:
: JavaScript (+ REACT, BABEL)
: Web Development (FETCH, GET, types of requests)
: RESTful APIs
: Java
: DNSA = data science and algorithms. Extremely important for structuring programs, and in very important to understand for coding interviews.
: MySQL: Database API. Stores ROWS and COLUMNS of data. Each row has a __*primary identifier*__ (or `key`) that differentiates it from every other row.
: [Spring](https://start.spring.io) (Java Web development): connects Java and many other systems like MySQL and different applications of Web development.

## Why React.js

React = Less Boilerplate (Remove "manual labor")

React is meant to be *dynamic* in a sense, in where the outputted HTML will be based on some JavaScript functions.

> React is more fun than *vanilla* js, and will help improve general coding abilities and js fundamentals (as any working with any library would)

__Important__: useState function [docs](https://react.dev/reference/react/useState)

## REST API

[REST](https://www.ibm.com/topics/rest-apis#:~:text=the%20next%20step-,What%20is%20a%20REST%20API%3F,representational%20state%20transfer%20architectural%20style.)
: representational state transfer architectural
: more explanation necessary...

API
: An abstraction of the implementation of how a function works, only requiring how a knowledge of __how to call__ the functions for the end-user, not __how they work__.

FETCHing from a server requires you to *request* to a web server what you want. JavaScript `Fetch API` is used here.
: Payload = What you want to get from the request

Example of ~~fetch~~ GET call: `https://dog.ceo/api/breeds/image/random/4`
 - The *payload* here is the `/breeds/image/random/4`, specifying what you want from the server. Some sites may specify this with arguments like `?&type=image&count=4`

## More on SPRING
*Spring* abstracts the ideas of a lot of different services to let you nicely interact with them in Java. It uses `implementations` to let you implement `methods` that *tell* Spring how you each distinct functionality of that system should work with your program. Here's an example:

```java
public class ItemServiceImpl implements ItemsService {
    @Override
    public List<Item> getAll() {
        // How this program should return all items, logic, etc.
    }
}
```
And here's how you'd `map` web requests to certain methods:
```java
@RequestMapping("/items")
public class ItemMappings {
    // ...
    @RequestMapping (
        value = "/getAll",
        method = { REQUEST_METHOD.GET }
        // ...
    )
}
```

With this info provided, Spring will run the `getAll` when the web address `/items/getAll` is added upon the base url. Example with self-hosting: 

`http://localhost/items/getAll`

## Specific Tips:
- *Abstract* as much as possible in your code
- C++: learn frameworks example is [Qt](https://www.qt.io/), a graphical library that may be used in __actual industry applications__ (lots of Linux stuff in my experience).

## General Tips:
> Anyone can code. Let your passions guide you, not your struggles

> The more you learn, the more you realize __what you don't know__

> Putting your thoughts into the words that computers understand is the essence of computer science

- CS in college will give you a strong foundation
- With this foundation, you can more easily learn about any computer framework out there
  - Be willing to learn about any language, any field in CS
- Programmers are __bad at estimating__ time periods. Expect the unexpected; bugs, new features, and other roadblocks can pop out of nowhere.
- Expand your horizons outside of normal CS classes
  - To do this, you need to __not procrastinate on general coursework__ so that you can focus on more learning opportunities in CS (online tutorials, articles, general "playing around")
- Physical activities can help clear your mind. **Go touch grass**
- People will spend much more time __reading__ your code than you will __writing__ it (generally). Thusly, you're code should be nice to read and easy to understand (and well explained if it's not intuitive).

## Recommended Projects
*Make it as simple and get it up and running as soon as possible*

*Use languages where complex problems are abstracted (python > assembly)*

Tangible projects with Qt:
- Just make  a screen and button
  - Starting out small
- When implementing something in a new library, start by working with what you already know.
  - Ex: if you wrote hangman in the terminal and are starting out with a GUI library, make hangman with the GUI library

## Recommended CS Courses:
__Course numbers from UCI__

- Theory of Computation Courses (CS 162)
- Computer Logic and Design (CS 151, 152)
- Machine Learning Course (CS 178)
- Concepts and Foundations of Programming Languages (141)
- Compilers Courses